This is a skeleton for CS 111 Lab 1.

Replace this README file with notes on your implementation.
Mentions any special features or limitations.

Team members:
Andy (Bo-Yun) Shih
ID: 404 418 629

Muzammil Khan
ID: 204 282 448

--------

GENERAL COMMENTS:

This lab took a very long time from start to finish. The main two challenges for us was not understanding the marking method and not being able
to understand each other's code well. We initially thought that we were supposed to use test-p-ok.sh as an input to ./timetrash, so we ran
commands like ./timetrash -p test-p-ok.sh. This confused us for quite a while and we wasted a few hours before realizing we simply run ./test-p-ok.sh,
which gave us nice error messages for simple debugging. Also, it was sometimes difficult to help one another when we ran into trouble, because it was
difficult to understand each other's code structure.


NOTES ON IMPLEMENTATION:

Main.c initially calls make_command_stream. We implement make_command_stream with one giant while-loop that keeps reading in char-by-char from the
input file. The while loop starts by removing comments and performing simple character checks, to see if any invalid chars are present. Then we perform
preprocessing by changing difficult patterns such as '&&' into unique chars such as '*'. We also convert newline chars into two cases: if it is interpreted
as a space we leave it as a newline, otherwise we use the char '~' to replace it. This became very useful when determining new cases. We next check for syntax
errors such as operators with empty halves. After all the input is read we exit the while-loop and change the entire buffer into a char** by calling
helper function split_forest. The char** hold a separate for each test case. The command tree structure is not formed yet. We keep track of how many cases there
are in command_stream->total_cases;

Then, main.c repeatedly calls read_command_stream for each case. For each call, we feed the case string into parse(), which creates a command tree. Parse is
a recursive function that, when encountered an operator, recursively parses the left half and the right half of the string. After the command tree is created,
we return it to main and the tree gets printed by print-command.c. When all the test cases are completed (tree-made and printed), the program is done.


SIDE-NOTE:
In the middle of testing, a lot of our errors came from extra spaces before and after simple commands. We were a bit confused at first, but realized the 
easiest way to solve it was to strip the spaces while processing the inputoutput redirection of the simple commands. So, the function returnInputOutput()
helped fix many of our spacing issues.

--------

PART B

This part of the lab was fairly straightforward. We had to execute the command tree that was produced from part A, and we implemented the
this in execute-command.c. The entire structure boils down to a recursive function with a big switch statement that takes in a command and,
based on what type the command is, processes it accordingly. The behavior of the recursive function separated into two main cases: simple
commands, compound commands. In both of these categories the input/output was a big concern.

For simple commands, it was simple. We executed the command via a fork and an execvp system call in the child process. The parent process
continued on to return and fetch the next commands. For the compound commands, we simply had to make two forks, and make the right process
wait for the left process. The parent process waits for both child processes to finish, and takes on the exit status of the right child.

Input output was a hassle especially for pipe commands. We had to call system calls such as dup2 and pipefd to set up the I/O.

Generally, this part of the lab was quite a bit simpler than the first part of the lab. The code structure was clear, and not many corner
cases.

--------

PART C

Once again this part of the lab was simpler than we thought it would be. We had to execute the commands in parallel. We modified execute-command.c,
main.c, and created two new test files testDependencyGraph.sh and testParallel.sh. We created a dependency graph and another graph to help keep track
of what elements we have already visited. We then used topological sort to break up the commands in the forest into steps. We then executed each step 
in parallel before executing the next step.

This part of the lab was more straighforward than the first part A.
--------